**MVTec AD: the MVTec Anomaly Detection** is a dataset for instance segmentation, semantic segmentation, object detection, classification, and unsupervised learning tasks. It is used in the anomaly detection research. Possible applications of the dataset could be in the industrial domain. 

The dataset consists of 5354 images with 1888 labeled objects belonging to 48 different classes including *color*, *scratch*, *crack*, and other: *combined*, *cut*, *hole*, *contamination*, *faulty_imprint*, *poke*, *bent*, *rough*, *thread*, *glue*, *defective*, *metal_contamination*, *scratch_neck*, *manipulated_front*, *scratch_head*, *thread_top*, *thread_side*, *flip*, *broken_small*, *squeeze*, *broken_large*, *broken_teeth*, *split_teeth*, *oil*, *glue_strip*, *print*, *fabric_border*, *fold*, *squeezed_teeth*, *fabric_interior*, *gray_stroke*, *cut_inner_insulation*, *bent_wire*, *missing_cable*, *cable_swap*, *broken*, *bent_lead*, *damaged_case*, *misplaced*, *cut_lead*, *poke_insulation*, *cut_outer_insulation*, *missing_wire*, *liquid*, and *pill_type*.

Images in the MVTec AD dataset have pixel-level instance segmentation annotations. Due to the nature of the instance segmentation task, it can be automatically transformed into a semantic segmentation (only one mask for every class) or object detection (bounding boxes for every object) tasks. There are 4096 (77% of the total) unlabeled images (i.e. without annotations). There are 2 splits in the dataset: *train* (3629 images) and *test* (1725 images). Alternatively, the dataset could be split into 15 categories: ***hazelnut*** (501 images), ***screw*** (480 images), ***pill*** (434 images), ***carpet*** (397 images), ***zipper*** (391 images), ***cable*** (374 images), ***leather*** (369 images), ***capsule*** (351 images), ***tile*** (347 images), ***grid*** (342 images), ***metal_nut*** (335 images), ***wood*** (326 images), ***transistor*** (313 images), ***bottle*** (292 images), and ***toothbrush*** (102 images). Additionally, there are 4096 ***good*** images with no defects provided for classification purposes. The dataset was released in 2019 by the <span style="font-weight: 600; color: grey; border-bottom: 1px dashed #d3d3d3;">MVTec Software GmbH, Germany</span>.

Here is a visualized example for randomly selected sample classes:

[Dataset classes](https://github.com/dataset-ninja/mvtec-AD/raw/main/visualizations/classes_preview.webm)
